---
title: Biotech Day 2022 @NTUA was a success
description: Biotech Day 2022 was completed with the announcement of four awards
directory: biotech-day-2022
thumb: 099F5311-EF73-4598-8F5F-2D6C0330E98D.jpeg
---
Twelve teams from the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (SECE) and the School of Mechanical Engineering (SME) came together for the second consecutive year in a virtual meeting, on July 6, to present their projects to a panel of distinguished experts. The student teams were mentored within the framework of the undergraduate courses “e-health and m-health technologies” and “Biodesign” of the SECE and SME, respectively. The event was jointly organized by the Biomedical Simulations and Imaging (BioSIM) Laboratory and the Biomedical Systems (BioSys) Laboratory and was supported by the IEEE Greece Section.

The panel of experts consisted of Dr. Spiretta Golemati, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, Medical School, National Kapodistrian University of Athens, Dr. George Loudos, Co-founder and CEO at BIOEMTECH, and Dr. Evangelos Siokas, Coordinator of the Research and Entrepreneurship node EPInoo – NTUA.

The panel congratulated the student teams for the creativity and high quality of their projects and provided them with valuable feedback. The participants had the opportunity to interact and exchange ideas in an inspiring and fruitful environment.

The event was completed with the announcement of the following awards:
- **First Award**: “ICU digitalisation and support via a clinical decision support system”, Vozinaki A., Ellinas P., Pigadas N. (SECE)
- **Second Award**: “SafeTDs - Dare to get tested”, Anagnostou K., Stavrakakis O., Nikoletos K., Ziavras X. (SME)
- **Third Award**: “Incorporation of an IoMT pillbox in a smart home setting”, Kourtellari G., Kostavasili D., Alvanaki E.-L., Sarafi K. (SECE)
- **Attendees' Choice Award**: “Incorporation of an IoMT pillbox in a smart home setting”, Kourtellari G., Kostavasili D., Alvanaki E.-L., Sarafi K. (SECE)

Congratulations to all participants of the event! Looking forward to the 2023 NTUA Biotech Day!
